---
title: Life at D2L
date: 2018-01-05
author: Caleigh
layout: post
comments: true
permalink: /2018/01/05/life-at-d2l
categories:
  - Life Choices
  - Computer Science
  - School
tags:
  - BCS
  - co-op
  - coop
  - internship
  - UBC
  - D2L
---
I meant to publish this way back in November ... and here we are, in the new year! Let's get started -- these are all my thoughts post-conference!

# _Rewind..._

I just got back from D2L's in-house developer conference, and it was a blast! I think it's about time I write a little more about my first co-op experience in the BCS program.

I work at [D2L](https://www.d2l.com/). D2L (formerly known as Desire2Learn) is an educational technology company based in Kitchener, Ontario. Founded in the late 90s by a University of Waterloo undergraduate student, D2L makes an increasingly cloud-based learning management system called Brightspace used by institutions of all shapes and sizes around the world. They think of themselves as an education company that does tech, not a tech company that does education.

My co-op is at D2L's office in Richmond, BC; we're a team of 12 developers, one engineering director and one office administrator. It's a pretty small office. We've got two project teams, so even out of the 12 developers in the office I spend most of my time working with 5 of them. It's a neat balance of working for a fairly big company (D2L has around 800 employees) but, since my team works on a microservice, getting to know the full stack of our specific project.

I've only been here for two months, but so far I've been able to help automate the UI testing for our app and have lately spent a lot of time pair-programming with one of the other devs to work on some fun bugs and features. I've already learned a ton -- school really is no substitute for learning how software engineering actually works. The code base is so huge and complex; while our feature is relatively new, of course it still needs to interact with other components, often legacy code. That's taken some cool detective work that sometimes takes us to very unexpected places in the code, and one of my favourite things is reaching out to people who've worked on various different components to get their perspective on what we should do next.

It's also been really cool to get to know other common roles in tech companies. Since we use Agile, we have a product manager on our team who comes to all our scrum meetings. Learning from designers, PMs, marketing, sales, and instructional designers about all the different moving parts that go into creating and promoting a product like ours has been great. I like understanding the big picture, especially since I used to work in higher ed myself.

Most recently, we spent the last week in Kitchener, Ontario, at our in-house developer conference. It was so fun! I got to meet lots of people that I'd only ever chatted with online, and I also met up with another intern (the co-op at the Winnipeg office!). The energy and enthusiasm was fantastic. Sometimes our little remote office in Richmond  feels, well, remote, but attending this conference re-connected us to headquarters, gave us all an excuse to hang out socially in the evenings, and taught me lots more about AWS, lots of good actionable software engineering practices, and a bit more about where D2L is headed. It's definitely an exciting time to be working in educational technology.

I also got to chat with one of our conference's keynote speakers, [Greg Wilson](http://third-bit.com/). He gave an inspirational talk on the last day of the conference and was, for me, the real highlight of the week. Sometimes I feel like returning to school for computer science has also landed me squarely back on a hamster wheel to nowhere -- sure, I'll likely make more money and have more job security when I graduate. But aren't I just making widgets for rich dudes? Greg seems to have figured out how to tie his personal values to his work. He's farther along in his career than I am, but I find it comforting to know his kind of life is possible even with such a technical background in engineering. At D2L we talk about our architectural "North Stars" in terms of engineering; careers like Greg's (and [Cathy O'Neil](https://mathbabe.org)) are my own North Stars for my career trajectory.

# _Back to the present..._

It's now January 2018 -- hooray! I have lots of fun news to share: updates on my directed study, one extra dog in my life, where I'm doing my co-op next summer, etc.

I'll try to write again soon. Happy New Year, everyone!
